tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:1:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got List
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:2:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:3:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:4:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:5:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Collection
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:6:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:7:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:8:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:9:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:10:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:11:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:12:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:13:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:14:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got ExInfo
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:15:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:16:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:17:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:18:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:19:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:20:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got MapSet
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:21:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:22:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:23:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:24:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:25:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:26:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:27:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:28:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:29:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:30:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:31:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Symbol
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:32:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Symbol
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:33:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:34:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:35:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:36:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Keyword
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:37:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:38:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:39:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:40:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:41:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:42:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:43:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:44:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:45:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:46:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:47:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:48:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:49:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:50:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:51:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Collection
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:52:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:53:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:54:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:55:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:56:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:57:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:58:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:59:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:60:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:61:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:62:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:63:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:64:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:65:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:66:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:67:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:68:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:69:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:70:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:71:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:72:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:73:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:74:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:75:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:76:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:77:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:78:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:79:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:80:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:81:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:82:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:83:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:84:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:85:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:86:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:87:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:88:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:89:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:90:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:91:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:92:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:93:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:94:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:95:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got MapSet
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:96:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:97:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:98:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:99:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:100:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:101:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:102:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:103:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:104:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:105:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:106:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:107:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:108:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Type
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:109:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Type
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:110:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Atom
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:111:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:112:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:113:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Var
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:114:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:115:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:116:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:117:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:118:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:119:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:120:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:121:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:122:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:123:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:124:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:125:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:126:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:127:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:128:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:129:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:130:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:131:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:132:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:133:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:134:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:135:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:136:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:137:13: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/merge must have type Map, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:137:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:138:20: Parse warning: arg[1] of core/merge-with must have type Map, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:138:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:139:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:140:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:141:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:142:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:143:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:144:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:145:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:146:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:147:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:148:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Double
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:149:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Char
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:150:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:151:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:152:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:153:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:154:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:155:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Number
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:156:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:157:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:158:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got BigInt
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:159:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:160:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:161:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:162:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:163:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:164:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:165:11: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/set must have type Seqable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:165:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got MapSet
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:166:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Namespace
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:167:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Namespace
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:168:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Namespace
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:169:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:170:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Namespace
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:171:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Symbol
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:172:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:173:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:174:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:175:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:176:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Var
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:177:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:178:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:179:17: Parse warning: No namespace: g found
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:179:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:180:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:181:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:182:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:183:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:184:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Var
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:185:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Var
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:186:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got ArrayMap
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:187:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:188:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:189:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:190:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:191:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:192:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:193:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Error
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:194:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:195:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:196:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Keyword
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:197:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Regex
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:198:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:199:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Double
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:200:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:201:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:202:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:203:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:204:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:205:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:206:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:207:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:208:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:209:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Collection
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:210:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:211:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seqable
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:212:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:213:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:214:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:215:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Namespace
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:216:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:217:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Var
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:218:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:219:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got MapSet
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:220:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:221:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:222:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:223:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:224:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:225:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:226:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:227:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:228:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:229:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:230:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:231:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:232:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:233:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:234:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:235:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:236:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:237:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:238:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got String
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:239:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:240:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:241:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:242:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:243:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:244:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:245:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Vec
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:246:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:247:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:248:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:249:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/map must have type Callable, got Int
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:250:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:251:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:252:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Boolean
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:253:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:254:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Seq
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:255:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Nil
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:256:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:257:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Fn
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:258:6: Parse warning: arg[0] of core/inc must have type Number, got Map
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:167:18: Parse warning: unused namespace f
tests/linter/types-3/input.clj:216:16: Parse warning: unused namespace g
